A cluster of cases infected by a variant with a high number of mutations was identified some days ago in South Africa. It does not originate from delta, but from the original virus (named B.1) and accumulates more mutations than any other variant described (over 30 mutations only in Spike), many of which are potentially associated with immune evasion or higher transmissibility. Some experts believe it may have evolved within a chronically infected immunocompromised person. It is still not clear whether it is more transmissible, more vaccine resistant, or more virulent than delta. Researchers are conducting studies to better understand the impact of these mutations. It has now been detected in several regions of the world, including USA, Canada, Europe, Israel, and Australia. The lower the vaccination rate, the higher the risk that new viral variants will emerge and spread. In Africa , only 1 CARDINAL in 4 CARDINAL healthcare workers have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19. Less than 10% of people living iin Africa have received both doses of the vaccine. 
The outbreak of COVID-19 affected the lives of all sections of society as people were asked to self-quarantine in their homes to prevent the spread of the virus. The lockdown had serious implications on mental health, resulting in psychological problems including frustration, stress, and depression. In order to explore the impacts of this pandemic on the lives of students, we conducted a survey of a total of 1182 individuals of different age groups from various educational institutes in Delhi - National Capital Region (NCR), India. The article identified the following as the impact of COVID-19 on the students of different age groups: time spent on online classes and self-study, medium used for learning, sleeping habits, daily fitness routine, and the subsequent effects on weight, social life, and mental health. Moreover, our research found that in order to deal with stress and anxiety, participants adopted different coping mechanisms and also sought help from their near ones. Further, the research examined the student’s engagement on social media platforms among different age categories. This study suggests that public authorities should take all the necessary measures to enhance the learning experience by mitigating the negative impacts caused due to the COVID-19 outbreak.
The emergence of Corona Virus disease (COVID-19) has led the world to an unprecedented public health crisis. Emergency protocols were implemented in India to control the spread of the virus which resulted in restrictions on all non-essential public movements (Saha et al. 2020). With the closure of educational institutions, the need for a rapid transition from physical learning to the digital sphere of learning emerged (Kapasia et al. 2020). Online learning has been observed as a possible alternative to conventional learning (Adnan and Anwar 2020). However, according to a meta-analysis on e-learning (Cook 2009), it is reported that online learning is better than nothing and similar to conventional learning. To improve the e-learning experience, the education institutions are required to comply with the guidelines and recommendations by government agencies, while keeping students encouraged to continue learning remotely in this tough environment (Aucejo et al. 2020). Bao (2020) addresses five high-impact guidelines for the efficient conduct of online education.

This rapid evolution at such a large scale has influenced the students of all age groups (Hasan and Bao 2020). It is expected that the continued spread of the disease, travel restrictions and the closure of educational institutions across the country would have a significant effect on the education, social life, and mental health of students (Odriozola-gonzález et al. 2020). The students from the less privileged backgrounds have experienced larger negative impacts due to the Covid-19 outbreak (Aucejo et al. 2020). Reduction in family income, limited access to digital resources, and the high cost of internet connectivity have disrupted the academic life of the students. Moreover, 1.5 billion students across the world are now deprived of basic education (Lee 2020) leading to a serious psychological impact on their health. Moreover, changes in daily routine including lack of outdoor activity, disturbed sleeping patterns, social distancing have affected the mental well-being of the students. (Cao et al. 2020) uses 7-item Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale (GAD-7) as a diagnostic tool for the assessment of anxiety disorders, panic disorders, and social phobia. Further, (Ye et al. 2020) analyses mediating roles of resilience, coping, and social support to deal with psychological symptoms.

In this paper, we investigated and analyzed the potential consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic on the life of students. Our research shows that there is a wide gap between the government's policy aspirations and the implementation of these online education policies at the grassroots level. Moreover, our study attempts to assess the mental situation of students of different age groups using different parameters including sleeping habits, daily fitness routine, and social support. Further, we analyse different coping mechanisms used by students to deal with the current situation.
A 19-set questionnaire was developed, which included a variety of multiple-choice questions, Likert scale and for a few questions, the respondents were allowed to enter free texts. The survey was administered using the Google Forms platform, which requires subjects to be logged in to an e-mail account to participate in the survey, it restricted multiple entries from an individual account. The distribution of the questionnaire was conducted through the outreach of social media platforms, e-mail, and standard messaging services. Clear instructions with the google form were provided to ensure the respondent must be a student.
In this study, we conducted a cross-sectional survey with a sample size of 1182 students from different educational institutions. A summary of demographic details in the form of numbers and percentages is provided. Mean at 95% Confidence Interval limit was calculated for learning hours for online classes and self-study, duration of sleep, time spent on fitness and sleep. Kruskal Wallis test, a non-parametric test was used to assess the significant difference in the time spent on the aforementioned activities among different age distributions. Fisher’s exact test was performed to assess the differences between respondent’s health with the variables of interest. In order to analyse the association between age categories and different variables such as change in weight, health issues faced, stress busters, etc, the Pearson Chi Square test was used. JMP Version 15.2.1 from SAS was used for analysis. A statistically significant value of P < 0.05 was considered.
The following survey was done in a properly informed set up and consent from the individuals was taken for the participation. No individual was forced against their will and no identifying information was collected.
A total of 1182 subjects from different educational institutions including schools, colleges, and universities in the Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) participated in the online questionnaire. The demographic detail of the participants is shown in Table 1. The mean age is 20.16 years (95% confidence interval (CI), 19.8–20.4) (range, 7–59). The age of the participants was normally distributed (‘7–17’ year old, 303; ‘18–22’ year old, 694; ‘23–59’ year old, 185). 728 (61.62%) of the respondents lived in Delhi-NCR and the rest were living outside of Delhi-NCR during the period of the pandemic.
According to Table 2, the Kruskal Wallis test was used to assess the difference in the time spent by different age categories for daily routine activities. The average time spent on online classes for students was 3.20 h/day (95% confidence interval (CI), 3.08–3.32). However, the average time spent on online classes was significantly higher for students with age group ‘7–17’ years (3.69 h/day), and lower for students with age groups, ‘18–22’ years (2.98 h/day) and ‘23–59’ years (2.66 h/day) (P < 0.0001*). Further, respondents were asked about the time they allot per day for self-study, however, there was no significant difference among different age group categories (P = 0.106). Overall, 2.91 h/day (95% CI, 2.78–3.03) was the average time spent on self-study. According to the assessment of satisfaction level among students (see Fig. 1.a), 38.3% of students had negative response towards online classes (2.6% poor and 35.7% very poor), 33.4% considered it average while 28.4% (19.9% good and 8.5% excellent) gave a positive review. Surprisingly, the in-depth analysis showed the satisfaction levels varied significantly with different age groups. There were 51.6% (48.6% very poor and 3% poor) negative online class reviews from subjects in the ‘18–22’ age group, compared to 31.5% (29.1% very poor and 2.4% poor) negative reviews from subjects in the ‘7–17’ age group who spent more time on online classes.
The respondents were further asked about the medium of their online learning (see Fig. 1.b), 57.3% in the age group ‘7–17’ used smartphones while the majority of students from age group ‘18–22’ (56.4%) and age group ‘23–59’ (57.8%) used laptop/desktop for study. However, only a small portion of the total students (3.1%, n = 37) used tablet. With regard to the time spent in online classes, there was a statistically significant difference between the various mediums used (P = 0.0002). As shown in Table 3, 4.29 h/day (95% CI, 3.63–4.96) was the average time spent on online classes using tablets, 3.43 h/day (95% CI, 3.25–3.61) when using laptop/desktop, and 3.06 h/day (95% CI, 2.90–3.23) when using smartphones.
Among the respondents from different age groups (see Fig. 2), 13.6% (n = 160) faced health-related issues during the period of nationwide travel restrictions. Further respondents were asked about the change in body weight within this period, 37.1% reported an increase in weight, 17.7% reported a decrease in weight, and 45.3% reported no change in weight. When asked whether they are satisfied with their utilization of time, the majority of respondents (51.4%, n = 608) answered in ‘NO’, and the rest (n = 575) answered with ‘YES’. Also, 70.3% of the respondents stated that they were socially connected with their family members.
The outbreak of Covid-19 has upended the lives of all parts of the society. One of the most immediate changes introduced was the closure of educational institutions to slow the transmission of the virus. In order to prevent further interruption of studies, new teaching methods for the online delivery of education were introduced (Johnson et al., 2020, Di Pietro et al., 2020). However, these measures can have long-term consequences on the lives of students (Cohen et al. 2020). Therefore, there is a strong need to record and study the effects of the changes being made. In this study, our aim is to analyze the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the education, health, social life of the students, and demonstrate results about its subsequent effect on their daily routine amid travel restrictions. The findings indicate that the time spent by students on online classes did not comply with the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD) (Department of School Education & Literacy Ministry of Human Resource Development 2020). Limited class interaction and inefficient time table significantly affected the satisfaction levels among students. The peer-to-peer impact in the school environment motivates individuals to work hard and learn social skills, which may not be possible in an online setting. Moreover, the biggest challenge for online learning is the requirement of efficient digital infrastructure and digital skillset for both students and teachers.
Further, this study analyses the impact of different factors to measure stress levels among students. Alarmingly, 51.4% of respondents reported that they did not utilize their time during the period of lockdown. Furthermore, sleeping habits, daily fitness routines, and social interaction significantly affected their health conditions. The government agencies imposed measures such as social distancing and restrictions on travel but they did not take into account the health implications. Although, these measures are necessary to regulate safe conditions, there is no strategy to safeguard the psychological impact due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Our research also explores the different coping mechanisms used by students of different age groups. Moreover, we analyzed various digital social media tools used by students as a self-management strategy for mental health. Our statistical analysis addresses key concerns related to online education and health due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Once the COVID-19 pandemic ends and educational institutions re-open, the concerned authorities should continue to invest in online education to enhance learning experience. They should carefully analyze the issues experienced during sudden transition to online learning and prepare for any future situations. Proper training of educators for the digital skills and improved student-teacher interaction must be conducted. For disadvantaged students, availability of digital infrastructure with proper internet availability and access to gadgets must be ensured to avoid any disruption to their study.

Due to the situation in Covid-19, many students are likely to suffer from stress, anxiety, and depression, so it is necessary to provide emotional support to students. Future work in this direction could be to analyze the association of different stress busters on the mental health of the students. Moreover, guidelines should be created to anticipate the needs of the vulnerable student population. Improved healthcare management would ensure the delivery of mental health support.
There are some limitations to our study that should be noted. The first limitation is the sampling technique used. It relies on digital infrastructure and voluntary participation that increases selection bias. The imposed travel restrictions limited the outreach to students who do not have access to online learning. Second, the study is obtained from one specific area, given the lockdown orders and the online medium of classes, we expect these results to be fairly generalizable for schools and universities nationwide. Another limitation of this study is the cross-sectional design of the survey, there was no follow-up period for the participants.
In this study, our findings indicated that the Covid-19 outbreak has made a significant impact on the mental health, education, and daily routine of students. The Covid-19 related interruptions highlight key challenges and provide an opportunity to further evaluate alternate measures in the education sector. The new policies and guidelines in this direction would help mitigate some of the negative effects and prepare educators and students for the future health crisis.
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is an emerging respiratory infection caused by a novel coronavirus called Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). The virus is a member of the coronavirus family that are zoonotic pathogens, i.e., the viruses cause and transmit illnesses between human and several animals species such as cattle, camels, cats, and bats (1, 2). The SARS-CoV-2 virus is similar to Middle East Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV), which have their origins in bats. The COVID-19 disease was detected initially in late December 2019 in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, and spread worldwide 2 months later. About 200 countries over the entire world have reported different numbers of cases; however, the disease has drastically expanded in the United States, Spain, Italy, Germany, France, China, Iran, the United Kingdom, and Turkey. COVID-19 had caused more than 3.7 million confirmed cases and killed at least 260,000 worldwide up to the 11th of April 2020, and these numbers were expected to rise dramatically in the next few months (3). To date, 473 COVID-19-infected cases have been confirmed in Jordan, and 9 people have died with COVID-19 (4).

The symptoms of COVID-19 illness range from very mild (fever and respiratory symptoms such as cough and shortness of breath) to severe (pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome and kidney failure) with a mortality rate around 4% (3). Elderly persons and those suffering from co-morbidities like heart disease, lung disease and diabetes, are at higher risk of developing severe COVID-19 illness. On March 18, 2020, the CDC COVID-19 Response Team reported that 80% of COVID-19-related deaths were among the elderly aged > 65 years (5). As a response to this serious global public threat, the WHO characterized the COVID-19 outbreak as a pandemic on March 11, 2020, since the number of COVID-19 cases outside China had increased by 13-fold, and the number of affected countries had increased by 3-fold (3).
Sample Size Calculation
In the current study, the estimated sample size was derived from the online Raosoft sample size calculator (16). The sample size was calculated based on a response rate of 50%, a confidence interval of 99%, and a margin of error of 5%, with a total university student population of 377,000. Although the required sample size was 663, in the current study the sample size used was 3-fold larger than that required.

Study Design and Preparation of Questionnaire
A cross-sectional study was conducted among 2083 government and private university students in Jordan between March 19 and 21, 2020. On March 2, the first confirmed case of COVID-19 was reported in Jordan, and on March 18, the government imposed stringent social/business restrictions for 1 month to contain the disease. The survey questionnaire was initially prepared in English and then translated into Arabic with the assistance of an independent, bilingual, professional translator whose native language was Arabic. The first part of the questionnaire involved an introduction showing the objectives of the study and highlighting that participation in this study was voluntary, and that the answers would be treated confidentially. Participants were not offered any financial compensation. The completion of the online survey took about 8–10 min and included multiple-choice questions, or yes/no/ I don't know options within different sections. A second section determined the socio-demographic variables of the students including gender, age, university location, major field of study, education level, and place and type of residence. The third section measured the students' knowledge about COVID-19, such as its sources, incubation period, mortality rate, transmission, symptoms, and complications. Another section explored the source they used for information about COVID-19. The remaining survey sections, including information about the attitudes and practices of students regarding COVID-19 infection have been submitted for publication elsewhere.

Consistency and Validation of Questionnaire
The questionnaire was prepared based on the available information on the web sites of the European and American Centers for Disease Control (ECDC and CDC, respectively) and the World Health Organization (WHO). The questionnaire was reviewed by a panel of experts and revised based on their comments. After that, a pilot study was conducted to evaluate the internal consistency and validity of the Arabic version of the questionnaire by asking 29 students to complete the translated questionnaire. Cronbach's alpha was calculated, and it was within the acceptable level (≥0.70) with a value of 0.74.

Ethics Approval
The survey project was evaluated and approved by the Institutional Review Board (IRB) committee of the Hashemite University. Further, an informed consent form was obtained from all participants prior to their participation in the study showing that involvement in the completion of the questionnaire was voluntary, that students were able to withdraw at any stage of the survey, and that their answers would be treated confidentially.

Data Collection Procedure
Data were collected using a self-administered, online survey via Google forms due to the complete lockdown of Jordan. Students were invited to complete an anonymous online survey through Facebook and WhatsApp groups of university students.

Statistical Analysis
The collected data were analyzed using the Statistical Package of Social Sciences software (SPSS) version 25. A system of question scoring was used to measure the level of students' knowledge by giving a score of 1 for the correct answer and 0 score for an incorrect or I don't know answer for each question. The total score of students' knowledge was converted to a percentage, over a range of 0 to 100%. The knowledge scores were classified a spoor ( ≤ 60%), moderate (60.01–80%), and good knowledge (≥80.01%). The results of students' knowledge of COVID-19 and sources of information were expressed as frequencies and percentages. The results were analyzed using analysis of variance (ANOVA) and Pearson's Chi square test (X2) was used to illustrate the statistical differences among the categories of socio-demographic variables. Cronbach's alpha was calculated to assess the internal consistency of the questionnaire. Statistically significant differences were considered when P < 0.05.

Results
Demographic Characteristics and Knowledge Score of COVID-19 Among Participants
Of the 2,083 student participants in this study almost three quarters, or 1,572, were female. Undergraduate students represented the majority of the participants at 90.2%, with the remaining 9.8%, being postgraduate students. The proportion of participants according to their majors were as follows: 415 students (19.9%) were from the engineering school, 535 students (25.7%) were from the medical sciences school, 376 students (18.1%) were from the agriculture and general sciences school and 757 students (36.3%) were from the human sciences school. Among the participants, 498 (23.9%), 1,304 (62.6%), and 281 (13.5%) students were within the ages of 18–19.9, 20–24.9, and ≥25 years, respectively. Other demographic variables such as university location, place of residence and type of accommodation are presented in Table 1.

A limited number of in vitro and clinical studies have reported that some medications such as chloroquine, hydroxychloroquine, remdesivir and azithromycin have the potential to reduce the duration and symptoms of COVID-19 infection (2, 6–8). Unfortunately, a curative treatment or vaccine for the SARS-CoV-2 virus has not been developed yet, and the available medical interventions are supportive only.
The vast majority (96.3%) of the university students had heard about COVID-19. The knowledge of the students about COVID-19 is detailed in Tables 2, 3. Among the 12 questions assessing the general awareness of COVID-19, 7 questions were correctly answered, with percentages ranging between 85.4 and 99.4%. These questions evaluated the students' knowledge about cause, incubation period of COVID-19, the need for isolation and emergency or curative treatment of infected persons, and the presence of infected individuals in Jordan. Further, 71.0–72.7% of the participants recognized that COVID-19 is caused by a novel member of the coronaviruses, and that there is no effective medication or vaccine for its control. About 59.1% of the students were aware that the approximate mortality rate of COVID-19 is ≤ 5%. Additionally, about one-third of the respondents (34.6%) expected that genetic material of the virus was DNA. The percentage of “don't know” answers in these questions increased as the students' knowledge decreased and ranged from 0.3 to 46.7% (Table 2).
To the best of our knowledge, only one previously published study assessed the knowledge of Jordanian university students about COVID-19. However, the study only involved undergraduate students of Mutah University which is a government university located at the south of Jordan (17). The current study comprehensively assessed the knowledge and source of information about COVID-19 among postgraduate and undergraduate students from different fields of study in different government and private universities distributed over three zones: the north, middle and south of Jordan. The overall student COVID-19 knowledge score was 80.1%, indicating that most students were knowledgeable about this pandemic. This was expected because the survey was conducted just 1 d after the government-initiated lockdown of Jordan to control the COVID-19 pandemic, and 17 d after the first confirmed case of COVID-19 was reported in this country. Since then, the number of cases slowly increased during the conduct of the study. The present results are similar to those reported by Clements (18) who indicated that the average public knowledge score of US residents 2 months after illness began in the USA was 80%. However, the knowledge score reported in the current study is lower than that reported by Zhong et al. (19) who found that the overall knowledge score was 90% among Chinese residents during the rapid rise period of COVID-19 cases in Hubei Province, and Erfani et al. (20) who found that the average public knowledge of Iranians was 90% regarding general characteristics of COVID-19, and 85% regarding the mode of transmission and categories of people at high risk of COVID-19. On the other hand, Bhagavathula et al. (21) reported that a significant proportion of healthcare workers displayed poor knowledge about COVID-19 infection, particularly its transmission and incubation period.

The reasonably high knowledge score among Jordanian students likely resulted from their exposure to government information about COVID-19 which occurred before application of the quarantine. Furthermore, the overwhelming news reports about COVID-19, and the WHO characterization of the disease as a pandemic due its high pathogenicity and transmissibility (3) might also have increased the students' knowledge of COVID-19. It was observed that most students obtained their information about COVID-19 from the internet and social media as well as mass media including TV. Similarly, Alzoubi et al. (17) stated that social media was the most common source of information for Mutah university students. However, in the current study, medical sciences and postgraduate students, who were the most knowledgeable groups, used scientific websites and articles significantly more than their counterparts. Thus, the knowledge category was significantly associated with the major discipline and level of education. Unsurprisingly, other variables had no significant effect on the knowledge of students since the disease is considered as a serious threat worldwide.

Except for the type of SARS-Cov-2 viral genetic material and mortality rate of infection, 71–99.4% of students correctly answered the questions in the general knowledge of COVID-19. It is worth mentioning that the lower knowledge scores were related to the questions that required deep knowledge. About 72% of students were aware that there is no vaccine for COVID-19 and that antibiotics are not effective for its treatment. At the time of writing this report, there were no FDA approved vaccines or drugs for the prevention or treatment of COVID-19. Consequently, the current management of the illness includes prevention of disease by applying control measures and supportive care of infected patients by providing supplemental oxygen and mechanical ventilation (22). These preventive measures were adapted from previous outbreaks including the SARS 2003 epidemic (12).

Students also were knowledgeable regarding transmission mode and people at high risk of COVID-19 with a range of correct answers from 60.1 to 94.7%. Students showed extensive knowledge of the actual route of COVID-19 transmission such as saliva and nasal drip during talking or coughing and sneezing by infected individuals, kissing and shaking hands with SARS-COV-2 carriers, handling a patient's objects and materials as well as touching contaminated surfaces. This indicated that students were knowledgeable of these routes and could take steps to avoid getting sick. A major portion of the students knew that COVID-19 is not transmitted by sexual routes, consuming food or through the air. Ong et al. (23) pointed out that airborne transmission has not occurred in an analysis of approximately 75,500 cases in China.

About 40% of students believed that children under 5 years of age are at high risk of developing COVID-19. However, based on the reports of WHO (3) and CDC (1, 5), children are rarely infected and when this occurs it is generally with mild symptoms. The European Center of Disease Prevention and Control (24) reported that children under 10 years old represent a very small proportion (1%) of COVID-19 cases. On the other hand, the majority of students were aware that the elderly and persons with co-morbidities are at high risk of COVID-19. It was proven that people over 60 years old and those at all ages with underlying conditions; such as diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular disease, cancer and chronic respiratory disease are at the highest risk of severe COVID-19 illness and even death (25).

The vast majority of students (>90%) were aware of the most common symptoms of COVID-19 such as fever, dry cough and shortness of breath. In contrast, large proportions of students (55.7–71.1%) were not knowledgeable about the less common symptoms such as weakness, rhinorrhea, vomiting and diarrhea. WHO (25) reported that the typical symptoms of COVID-19 include fever (87.9%), dry cough (67.7%), fatigue (38.1%), sputum production (33.4%), shortness of breath (18.6%), myalgia (14.8%), sore throat (13.9%), headache (13.6%), chills (11.4%), vomiting (5.0%), nasal congestion (4.8%), diarrhea (3.7%), and hemoptysis (0.9%) plus conjunctival congestion (0.8%) based on 56,000 laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 cases. Similarly, ECDC (24) reported that fever, dry cough, sore throat and general weakness were the most common symptoms of COVID-19 in 14,000 cases from 13 countries in Europe.

In the current study, 79.2–88.3% of the students were knowledgeable that pneumonia and bronchitis are complications of COVID-19. However, about 55.2% of students were aware that the disease may cause organ failure, and only 4.6% knew that sepsis is one of the COVID-19 complications. These low values could be because sepsis and multi-organ failure occur in severe COVID-19 cases which contribute to only 4% of infected people (3, 24). These complications can lead to a high mortality rate among infected persons and the vast majority of students (91.2%) in the current study recognized that severe respiratory failure could lead to death.

The WHO (12) expected that SARS-COV would not be the last emerging novel virus and it was followed by influenza A, H1N1, MERS, Ebola, Zika, and SARS-COV-2 viruses during the last two decades of the 21st century. Further, it is also expected that new viral diseases will evolve in the future at higher rate than at this period in time. Therefore, more fundamental information about viruses should be made available to the public facilitating the identification of risk factors for these diseases which should enable communities to deal with future emerging viral infections effectively and rapidly (26). Based on the results of the current study, it is suggested that public health authorities in collaboration with universities continuously implement health education programs about viral infections and other infectious diseases to university students through a required credit course during their studies, particularly those in non-medical programs to enhance their knowledge regarding these diseases so that they might directly engage in the implementation of protective health measures to contain infectious diseases such as the COVID-19 pandemic.

This study showed good knowledge of COVID-19 among 2083 postgraduate or undergraduate students from different universities in Jordan with an overall knowledge score of 80.1%. The students showed extensive knowledge of most questions about general information, transmission route, symptoms, complications and people at high risk of COVID-19. However, the students' knowledge was significantly affected by the college of study and education level where medical and postgraduate students had the highest levels of knowledge. The least common symptoms (such as vomiting and diarrhea) and complications (such as weakness and sepsis) were not well recognized by students. Therefore, these results could help in assessing the actual situation to apply educational health programs and measures.

COVID-19 disease has negatively affected global economics, and this has included the Jordanian economy. Furthermore, many healthcare systems have collapsed or nearly collapsed due to COVID-19 (9, 10). Therefore, it is very important to flatten the shape of the crest in case numbers as much as possible while communities experience an outbreak of COVID-19 to reduce the burden on the healthcare system.

In response to lessons learnt from the previous pandemic (H1N1) 2009 virus and SARS in 2003, management measures should be considered. These measures include prevention of the infection within animals, its transmission from animals to humans, and its transmission among humans (11, 12). The latter is highly affected by promoting good hygienic practices among people to include enhancement of hand washing, use of personal protective equipment and minimization of hand-to-face contact (13). During the current pandemic, most countries are responding to contain the COVID-19 pandemic by retarding infection spread using different strategies such as contact tracing and self-quarantine, arrangement of health system infrastructures to treat severely infected patients who need isolation, oxygen therapy or mechanical ventilation, reducing, or banning events involving mass gatherings, and encouraging people to apply hygienic health measures, such as physical distancing, respiratory etiquette and frequent hand washing. The latter strategy requires a high level of knowledge about COVID-19 fostering attitudes among people to recognize and practice these measures properly. In the absence of COVID-19 treatment, the application of protective measures will potentially prevent the population from acquiring the disease and reduce disease dissemination (14, 15). As a result, this study aimed to assess the knowledge and information sources of undergraduate and postgraduate students at different Jordanian universities toward COVID-19 infection. As a youthful country, a large number of young Jordanians are enrolled in a total of 33 governmental and private universities. Thus, their awareness levels will roughly reflect the public knowledge about COVID-19, which will constitute a general reference to guide the local authorities in planning the required educational interventions.